Have you ever wondered how your extroverted coworker,
can spend so much time around people without getting tired?
They're always showing up to happy hours,
networking events and conferences.
They can strike up a conversation
with just about anyone, and it doesn't seem like
they have trouble finding prospects.
As an introvert, you don't always enjoy talking to people
at least not for prolonged periods.
You like to relax by yourself.
And it doesn't bother you too much
when you can't attend an event,
you might even relish the chance to be alone.
That's because introverts direct their energy inward,
spending time alone, reflecting on their thoughts
and processing their feelings, refreshes introverts.
On the other hand,
extroverts direct their energy outward.
Contact with others charges them up
and gets them ready to go.
Sales might feel like the perfect fit
for those who enjoy stimulating environments.
But quality is more associated with introversion,
can also help you thrive and succeed in the long run.
Let's look at some of those hidden advantages.
Here are five introvert qualities that are great for sales.
Of course, some extroverts might also possess these traits,
but they may come more naturally to introverts.
Introverts tend to be good listeners,
and listening is a critical skill in sales.
Because understanding what a customer needs
can help you find the best solution for them.
Because they're not focused on making small talk,
introverts don't waste time.
They get the work done
and may even close deals faster.
Of course, this doesn't mean that extroverts waste time.
Making small talk has its own value
but introverts can redirect their energy
into other tasks, such as following up on leads,
organizing the pipeline
or thinking of ways to make their process more efficient.
Another introvert quality advantageous in sales,
is that introverts like to prepare.
Introverted salespeople are good at researching and planning
which gives them an edge in important meetings.
Next, introverts excel at critical thinking.
They tend to spend a lot of time analyzing processes
to see what they can do better.
Finally, introverts communicate well in writing.
Writing gives them more time to think about
what they want to say.
So, it turns out that introverts have top notch qualities
to bring to sales.
But how can you keep thriving,
through all the people facing activities
that come with being a salesperson?
Let's look at some tips
on how to succeed in sales as an introvert.
First, play to your strengths.
Remember, a lot of sales activities can be performed alone
like reaching out and following up with email,
researching prospects, preparing sales presentations,
and analyzing processes.
Second, don't try to be extrovert.
Don't like interacting in big groups,
focus instead on building one-on-one rapport with customers.
Your job is to help customers find what they need
not talk their ear off.
Third, ask open-ended questions.
Find out what customers are thinking
by letting them do the talking.
For example, you might ask
what are some concerns you have about the product?
Can you tell me a little bit about your experience
with the service.
Next, avoid overthinking.
One trap introverted salespeople can fall into
is to overthink and block progress.
To prevent this, stop and ask yourself
am I too anxious?
Is this stopping me from doing work?
Finally, take the time to recharge.
Introverts gain energy from spending time alone.
So it's important to schedule some solitary pursuits
after a day of meetings and calls.
There's no innate quality you need to succeed in sales.
Both introverts and extroverts possess unique strengths.
If you're an introvert,
you can focus on the skills that come easily to you,
to improve your processes and relationships
at the same time acknowledge areas you can work on
and don't beat yourself up,
for not having qualities that come naturally to extroverts.
There's no one right way, to be a sales person.